
us-central1 /register average latency: 125.127 ms
europe-west1 /register average latency: 432.778 ms
us-central1 /list average latency: 103.704 ms
europe-west1 /list average latency: 374.056 ms
ITERATIONS: 100
not_found_inList_count: 0



Analysis:
For parts 1-3 of HW2 I essentially just followed all of the instructions that were posted on Canvas being especially careful to allow for firewall rules to allow HTTP traffic on port 8080. I implemented two separate instances, one in the us-central1 region and the other in europe-west-1 region according to the instructions. After working through the logic in my python script I found that the US  /register average latency a value of 125.127ms to be significantly faster than the EU /register latency of 432.778. This output makes sense as the client script execution was implemented in a shorter distance to my current location in comparison to the EU version which must travel a much greater distance, meaning more delay and latency. These write operations within list were faster than /register  which for the us instance I got a latency of 103.704 ms and for the EU instance I got a latency of 374.056. Through testing the /list endpoints I once again saw an increased latency for the EU instance similar to the /register endpoint due to further distance. I also noticed that the /list endpoint was faster in comparison to the the /register endpoint and this makes sense as there is data being committed (write) to the Datastore for the /register endpoint rathe than primarily read for the /list endpoint.

In my experiment for the eventual consistent I saw that for 100 iterations that I got a not_found_inList_count of 0. We learned in lecture that eventual consistency means that if no new updates are made to a given data item that eventually all accesses to that item will return the last updated value. It should be noted that there is an inconsistency window and I noticed zero instances where the username was not present meaning that inconsistency window was extremely small. Eventually consistency does not guarantee immediate visibility of writes but in this experiment this replication occurred fast enough where I observed no inconsistency.
